Esto es una producción de Choco Inglés.
Escucha esta producción varias veces
hasta que la entiendas bien.
Recuerda que la meta es que puedas
comprender la historia sin ver la lectura.
Valeria arrived home exhausted and worried.
As she walked into the living room, she
found her parents sitting on the couch,
engrossed in a political debate on TV.
Hi.
Valeria said, her voice tight with frustration.
What are you doing?
David is missing.
Her parents barely looked up from the screen.
Oh, hello, Valeria.
We're just discussing the latest news.
Her mother replied.
You should join us.
What do you think about the new policies?
Valeria's anger flared.
How can you sit here and watch TV when
your son is out there somewhere missing?
This is outrageous.
Her father sighed and said.
You should calm yourself.
That's not our problem.
Valeria couldn't believe her ears.
Why do you say this isn't our problem?
Because it's not our business.
Her mother said matter of factly.
What do you mean?
Valeria demanded.
My relative, my brother and your son.
No, he's not, her father said.
You see, when we got married, we wanted
children but couldn't have one.
One day, the pastor called us.
Come over to my house, please, he said.
When we arrived, he showed us a baby.
We found him in the church basement.
Someone must have abandoned him there,
yet we mustn't do the same.
And I know you want children and he can't
take care of himself, the pastor said.
So we took him in.
After all, he was right.
We wanted a baby and he couldn't take
care of himself.
Valeria's face turned pale.
And so?
He's your adopted son, but he's still
your son.
He's still part of our family.
We have to help him.
No, we don't have to, her father said firmly.
We never officialized the adoption and
he's already of age.
Valeria left the house feeling indignant.
She walked quickly to the church to speak
with the pastor.
She really didn't used to go to church on
Mondays, but this was an emergency.
She found the pastor praying in one of
the benches.
I'd like to talk with you, Valeria said urgently.
Oh, Valeria, what a surprise.
Are you getting used to praying and
attending church on Mondays too?
The pastor asked, looking up.
I would like to talk with you, Valeria repeated.
My parents don't want to help my brother
and they might change their minds if you talk to them.
Well, they might or might not change their minds.
Tell me what happened.
Anguished, Valeria talked about the
situation with the pastor.
So, I think they should help anyway.
They shouldn't turn their backs on him now.
What do you think about it?
The pastor listened carefully and said,
Well, let me tell you a story.